# OSPO Local Meetup Quarterly Report 2023 March

## The Japanese language OSPO Local Meetup started in February, and this is the first quarterly report. #293
kuwatm started this conversation in OSPO Stories

https://github.com/todogroup/ospology/discussions/293


## In Japan, the Japanese language OSPO Local Meetup started in February.
It was decided to be held as a regular event twice a month, and the first was held as a hybrid at a venue in Shin-Yokohama, with a total of 18 participants, 9 on-site and 9 online.
The second to fourth rounds have since been held online, with about 15 participants.

## (20230210)

In the first, participants discussed their perceived challenges in light of the OSPO maturity map and the Good Governance Initiative. Issues emerged, such as OSS activities not being allowed in the company and little information about OSPO being provided in Japanese. They then discussed what to do with Local Meetups in Japan going forward.

## (20230217)

In the second meeting, the discussion was triggered by the opinion that "The OSS License Easy FAQ created in OpenChain was easy to understand, so I'd like to have a similar OSPO FAQ" and it was decided that the next two monthly Meetups would be held on "Strategy & Hosting" in the second week and "OSPO Launch & FAQ" in the fourth week.

## (20230310)

The third session was the first time of "Strategy & Hosting"' discussion, under the leadership of Motai-san, in which we reviewed existing Open Source strategies for strategic use and also discussed how to proceed. Next time, we would bring up a sample of OSS in business at each company.

## (20230324)

The fourth session was the first time of the "OSPO Launch & FAQ", during which questions about OSPO were extracted under Owada-san's leading. It was decided to start with basic questions such as "Why is OSS management necessary?" so that those who is unfamiliar with the term OSPO could understand the questions and start reading.
The minutes or materials of all sessions are arranged below in Japanese and English for your perusal.

## URL:

[OpenChain-JWG/OSPO/OSPOLocalMeetup-Memo at master · OpenChain-Project/OpenChain-JWG (github.com)]
(https://github.com/OpenChain-Project/OpenChain-JWG/tree/master/OSPO/OSPOLocalMeetup-Memo)
